# Appendices

## Transcript

This video demonstrates the alpha testing of my system against the must requirements outlined in my test plan. These requirements can be seen on the screen currently. I will run each test sequentially referring to the test plan before performing the action in the system. Each test result will be later recorded in the test plan with the relevant timestamp from this video. 

This is test M1.1. The test method is logging in with valid employee credentials. The expected result is that the user is authenticated and redirected to the employee dashboard. I will now log in. The dashboard has loaded successfully, so therefore this test passes. 

This is test M1.2. I will be attempting to login with invalid credentials. I have opened an incognito window of my project, and I expect the result to be that the login is rejected, and an error message is displayed. I will firstly try a test email and a password that is not linked to any account. As you can see, a login failed prompt is shown and the system correctly rejects the login, so therefore this test passes. 

I will now be performing test M2.1. This test's method is to load the employee dashboard. The expected result is that the dashboard loads with the statistic cards, the shift calendar and relevant boxes below to perform actions visible. I will now reload the page to assure that the dashboard loads correctly. As you can see the dashboard has loaded correctly and therefore this test does pass. 

I will now be performing test M3.1. In this test I will create a new user with administrator permissions and the expected result is that the user is created and appears in the team members list below. I will now click the add employee button. I will create the test user with a made-up email and a made-up paid rate. I will then grant manager privileges and then create the employee. As you can see, the user has appeared in the list, well the user has appeared in the list, so therefore this test has passed. 

I will now be performing test M4.1. This test will be to create a new shift from the management page. The expected result is that the shift is saved and visible on the calendar below. I will now create a shift, select an employee, choose a tag, choose a date, a time and an end time. I will then create the shift and as we can see the shift has appeared in the shift management calendar. I will now check to make sure that the shift has appeared alongside the user in the employee shift calendar. Therefore, this test is confirmed to pass. 

Now I'll be performing test M4.3. This test entails me attempting to edit a shift with the expected result being the updated details reflected on both the management shift calendar and the employee shift calendar. For this test I will be reassigning the shift to a different employee showing the update and edit capabilities of the shift management system. As we can see in the shift management page calendar the shift has moved to the correct employee reflecting success in that sense. If we go back to the employee view the shift has moved correctly and the data has updated correctly. Therefore, this test can be considered to pass. 

I will now be performing test M4.3 which entails me attempting to delete a shift with the expected result being that the shift is removed from the calendar. I will try this on the same shift we have just made. Click the delete button and as we can see it's been removed from the management calendar. If we return to the employee view, we can also see it's been removed from the employee view calendar. Therefore, we can be assured that this test has passed. 

I will now be performing test M5.1. I will be submitting a cover request for the shift for a shift, namely this one here, with the expected result being that the request is stored as pending and is visible in the management panel. I'll be clicking the cover button, requesting one of my peer employees, requesting cover and now that is done. So, if we move to the management panel, we should be able to see the cover request existing here for the shift therefore the test can be seen to pass. 

I will now be performing test M6.1 which entails me submitting a PTO request expecting the results to be that the request is stored in the management panel marked as pending and is viewable to be approved or rejected in the management panel. I will click request time off. I will select the date before and after the shift, so the 14th and the 16th and as we can see it has identified the shift. It has identified it as 12 hours long. I will use my PTO hours which will reduce it to 20 hours in total. I will submit the request. We will move to the management panel. We will check PTO requests pending and we can see that the PTO request has appeared in the management panel confirming the success of this test. 

I will now be performing tests M6.2 and M7.1 in which I will attempt to approve with the reassignment wizard and subsequently proving the successfulness of the approve functionality of paid PTO and unpaid PTO shift approvals. So, I will click approve with reassignment wizard. I will continue. I can see the shift that has fallen between the requested PTO days has been identified. I can either delete the shift or reassign the shift. I'll reassign it to one of the peer employees. I will approve and finish. Therefore, we can see here that it's been removed from the pending and moved to the approved. Now if we move to the employee view, we can see that the shift has been reassigned to the employee we selected, proving the successfulness of both these tests.

I will now be performing test M8.1. This test entails me attempting to clock in as an employee with the expected result being that an active clock in session begins. We can see here that I have a shift that is available to be clocked into. I will click the clock in button. We can see that the active clock in session has started showing the shift countdown, showing the clocked in at time, the time worked and the shift time. Therefore, this test can be considered a success. 

I will now be performing test M9.1. This entails me generating a payroll report for the previous month with the expected result being that a modal displays user and worked hours on this page. I'll click generate payroll with the fields pre-populated with the last month and then I can see each user with an employee breakdown, and I can see the shifts worked by that user and their running totals of how much money they have earned. Therefore, this test passes.

I will now be performing test M9.2. This entails me triggering the payroll email process. The expected result is that payroll emails are sent to employees and the payroll administrator. I will click the send emails button which turns into a loading state with once emails sent, I will get this response and then I will check for output in my email provider. As you can see the individual payroll statement as I have a user account has been sent to me, and the overall payroll summary has also been sent to me as the payroll email being mine configured. Therefore, this test can be considered to pass as the emails have been sent correctly. 

I will now be performing test M10.1 which entails me creating and assigning tags to a shift. I will first create a new tag called test tag. I will leave it as the default colour, or I can choose a different one using the colour picker. I will create the tag. The tag has been created successfully. I will go to the shifts tab. I will assign this tag to the shift and update it. We can see that the colour has changed. If we return to the employee page, we can see that the tag has been updated. Therefore, this shift can be considered to pass. 

I will now be performing test M11.1. This entails me attempting to view the audit log as a management user, with the expected result being the audit log overview box shows and the modal containing the entire audit log can be seen with pagination and filtering features. I'll firstly navigate to the management tab. As you can see the audit log overview box is successfully shown. I will click view all. All the audit log entries are successfully shown with filters and pagination. Therefore, this test can be considered to pass. 

I will now be performing test M12.1. This test requires me to update profile information with the expected result being that the changes are saved and persist. For this test I'll be updating my first name to be test name. I will click off the form. As we can see it is saved. If I reload the page, we can see the data has persisted. If I go back to the dashboard if I go here, we can see that the data has persisted successfully. Therefore, this test can be considered to pass. 

I will now be performing test M13.1. This requires me to perform a management action and checking the audit log to be assured that it is logged correctly. I will be editing employee details for this employee. I will be changing their first name to Carl, and I will now check the audit log here and we can see that the change has been recorded successfully therefore concluding a pass for the test. 

I will now be performing test M15.1, a system integration test. I will be navigating between the employee and management areas to confirm the consistent replication of data with the expected result being that the data remains the same between both systems. As you can see the shift data on the employee side is as follows. If I go to the management side, the shift side, we can see that the shifts are displayed in the same way with the same data type. Therefore, the data can be considered to remain consistent between both platforms and this test can be considered to pass. 

This therefore concludes the alpha testing of the system as a whole, containing the testing of every individual must requirement and therefore proving the reliability, consistency and usability of the system.

